# ZenUI
[A collection of UI components](https://zen-ui.zengrc.com/) that are shared across Reciprocity applications.

Powered by [Stencil](https://stenciljs.com/) and [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/).

## Dev environment setup
#### Install all required dependencies

```bash
yarn
```

#### Serve on localhost
For initial build and serve of both Stencil and Storybook in watch mode with HMR run command below. Storybook should be available on `http://localhost:6006`.

```bash
yarn start
```


#### To create new Web Components
To automatically create folder structure for the component, it's internal basic tests, style and documentation along with a basic code structure:

```bash
yarn create:component zen-{component-name}
```

#### Lint code
To check lint errors:

```bash
yarn lint:check
```

To check and fix autofixable lint errors:

```bash
yarn lint
```

#### Format code (using Prettier)
To check format errors:

```bash
yarn format:check
```

To check and fix autofixable format errors:

```bash
yarn format
```

#### Note
Both `format` and `lint` commands will ran before the changes are pushed to the repository. (Husky's Pre-Push Hook)

## Folder structure
`src/components` Stencil src folder. Implementation, tests, and stories for each component.\
`src/stories` General stories/guides, not based on an individual Zen UI component.\
`.storybook` Storybook configuration files.\
`.circleci` Deployment configuration.\
`.husky` Pre-Commit and Pre-Push hooks (linters, format, tests).

## How it works?

#### Stencil
The library is based on [Stencil](https://stenciljs.com/docs/introduction). Stencil is a compiler to produce **Standard Web Components**.

#### Web components
Web Components are part of the existing Web Standards. Thus they're natively supported by modern web browsers (IE with polyfills).\
Therefore they can be consumed in any frontend framework (React, Vue, Angular,...) or even in vanilla JS.

#### Storybook
For presentation, we're using [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/).\
Storybook is an industry-standard for presenting component libraries and design styles.

## Internal documentation

#### Components documentation
Documentation for each component is autogenerated by Stencil. Storybook picks autogenerated `readme.md` of each component and includes it to component's story.\
Check [Stencil Docs Readme generation](https://stenciljs.com/docs/docs-readme) for detailed guides on how to tailor docs using special code comments.

## MDX
All pages/stories are written in [MDX format](https://mdxjs.com/getting-started/). MDX is a format that lets you write JSX in your Markdown documents.\
Be sure to get to know it better before altering docs.

## VSCode extensions
To enable highlighting of html inside lit-html tags (html\`...\`), you can use extension [Comment tagged templates](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bierner.comment-tagged-templates) or [lit-plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=runem.lit-plugin).


## Components guidelines
### Components should behave as default html components
When building components keep in mind, that it should behave the same way as default html components.
It means if you have a working default html component, you should only change tag name into zen component and eveything will still work as expected. Eg:

```html
<select name="cars" id="cars" @change="myFunction()">
  <option value="volvo">Volvo</option>
  <option value="saab">Saab</option>
  <option value="mercedes">Mercedes</option>
  <option value="audi">Audi</option>
</select>
```

can be changed into zen component by just prepending tag names with `zen-` and
also prepending native events with `zen`:

```html
<zen-select name="cars" id="cars" @zenChange="myFunction()">
  <zen-option value="volvo">Volvo</zen-option>
  <zen-option value="saab">Saab</zen-option>
  <zen-option value="mercedes">Mercedes</zen-option>
  <zen-option value="audi">Audi</zen-option>
</zen-select>
```

### Emit default events
Emit default events (`click`, `change`, `input`,...) instead making them up

## How to use components

For instructions on how to consume this library check `src/stories/getting_started.stories.mdx`
